My family are Hungarian Jews.
Most of them were killed in concentration camps.
That's something that the Holocaust took from me.
They took the concept of family.
I needed explanations.
I needed to know why my family was murdered.
It made me really search at a very young age to see
if there was a real religion out there.
It was just a secular thing to be Jewish.
It was a cultural thing.
A friend of mine came up to me and said,
I have to tell you something.
I got this book from one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
It is the most beautiful book I have ever read.
I said, oh, I'll beat it.
And it couldn't have been a week later
that I got an knock on my door.
And there were two young women at the door
who started to talk to me about the Bible.
One side started having a study on a regular basis with Carolyn.
I enjoyed it more and more.
One day, my father was home.
He just screamed at them and basically threw them out of the house.
It just progressed after that.
There was just no peace at any time.
And lots of tears.
And I just couldn't understand why they weren't even asking me,
what is it that you like about this religion?
Who are these people?
Let us talk to no, nothing.
It was very, very hard.
Shortly after my baptism, my mother came up to me
and she said, your father and I are going out for the day.
You better not be here when we get home.
I was 17 years old.
I didn't know where I was going to go.
I didn't know what I was going to do.
But I trusted in Jehovah, and I picked up the phone
and I called my Carolyn.
In what seemed like minutes, there were brothers and sisters
at the house, they were putting my things into this truck,
bringing it over to Carolyn's house.
And she said, you can live with me.
Before I was baptized, I would drive back and forth
to school with a friend of mine.
Little by little, I was telling him what I was learning.
He said, you know, I want to meet these people.
I have some questions.
I had questions.
I asked them why we died, why we grew old, so forth, and so on.
And they went right to the Bible.
And when I left the house after that,
I said, this is the truth.
Growing up in my house, going to church every Sunday
was something that you had to do.
But when I became a teenager, then religion
became less in my life, and basketball became more.
Being a young man, you watch sports,
and you see the sports players made a lot of money.
My teachers would tell my parents
that he's going to be a good basketball player, take care of him.
He could be worth, you know, several hundred thousand dollars
by the time he graduates.
I received over 125 scholarships.
Now you're talking about a free education,
just because you can play basketball.
So I realized, you know, in the early age
that playing professional basketball
could mean a lot, not only for me, but for my family.
So as far as God was concerned, I had a little interesting God.
Like, I would ask my mom questions.
But it wasn't until Nancy brought me to the witnesses
that really something just kicked in.
I was studying, and my mom, she was downstairs in the basement.
I heard her crying and said, what's wrong?
And she said, I know you're going to become one of those Jehovah's Witnesses.
So realizing, in my mind, that I'm not going to become a basketball player,
I'm going to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
because that's more important.
That affected me many, many times.
When others found out that I was going to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
people shied away.
People tried to use you, and they think you can give them something
or you're going to be somebody big
to go to the direction of serving Jehovah completely.
You lost all the worldly people that you thought were your friends.
And so that was in one summer, I started the study with Brother Crestbull.
And in six months, I was baptized.
And then we decided to get married.
The scripture that says that even if my own father and my mother would abandon me,
that even Jehovah would take me in, it proved to be true in so many ways.
Once you become one of Jehovah's Witnesses, you're part of a family
that will do anything for you.
We've had adversity over the years, but Jehovah never said everything is going to be perfect.
What he said is, when you face these problems, you will not face them alone.
And Jehovah has never let us down when it comes to that.